**[README file]{.underline}**

***Forbidden Fruits: ***

***The Political Economy of Science, Religion, and Growth***

**By Roland BÃ©nabou, Davide Ticchi, Andrea Vindigni**

**Review of Economic Studies, 2021**

**[Overview]{.underline}**

The folder \"Datafortheweb\" contains the data and program files
required to replicate the tables and figures reported in the main text
and in the Online Appendix F of the paper. We here below report a brief
description of each folder and its contents. Then, we provide the Data
Availability and Provenance Statements containing a description of the
origin, location and accessibility of the data used in the article. It
follows a description of the contents of the data and program files.
Online Data Appendix G complements the information provided in this
README file with a detailed description for each variable used in the
empirical analysis and the data source. Program files also contain
additional comments.

**Folder content:**

-   \"**Data**\": the folder is divided into 3 subfolders.

(a) \"**Source**\": it includes all the datasets recalled by the do
    > files and required to replicate the analysis. The subfolder in
    > turn contains two subfolders named:

> \- \"**ICC**\", which includes the datasets used to generate the
> variables of the international cross-country analysis;
>
> \- \"**USA**\", which includes the datasets employed to generate the
> variables of the US cross-state analysis.

(b) \"**Temp**\": empty folder that will include all the datasets
    > generated by and recalled by the do files to construct the two
    > final datasets used to replicate the analysis.

(c) \"**Final**\": empty folder that will include the two datasets (one
    > for the international cross-country analysis and one for the US
    > cross-state analysis) generated by the do files and required to
    > replicate the tables and the figures.

-   \"**Programs**\": includes all the Stata do files required to
    replicate the results.

-   \"**Results**\": empty folder that works as a repository for the
    Tables and Figures.

**Instructions**:

Programs have been written using Stata 14.

**Preliminary set-up before running the programs:**

Install the following accessory user-written commands (in Stata, type
command *ssc install* followed by):

> *estout*
>
> *coefplot*

**Replication**:

\(i) Open the file \"master.do\" and replace the path to the folder
\".../Datafortheweb/\" at line 18 with your own directory path.

\(ii) The output Tables and Figures created by the do files are stored in
the folder \"**Results**\".

The approximate time needed to reproduce the analyses on a standard
desktop machine is less than 5 minutes.

**[Data Availability and Provenance Statements]{.underline}**

All data used in this paper are publicly available. As specified below
in detail, all datasets necessary to replicate our analysis are
contained in the folder \"/Data/Source\", either in the subfolder
\"ICC\" or \"USA\". However, some of the data are reported in the form
of an "extract" of the full dataset, i.e. the datafile provided contains
only the data of the variables of the full dataset used in the paper.
Specifically, this is the case for the European Values Study and the
World Values Survey datasets that are subject to a redistribution
restriction. However, EVS and WVS have both allowed the authors of the
paper to upload an extract of their full datasets. As reported in detail
below, regarding all other data employed in the analysis, the full
dataset is provided either because this is allowed by the conditions of
use or because the authors have been authorized by the owners of the
data to redistribute the dataset within the replication package. The
full Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life 2007 datafiles are provided in
Stata format rather than in the SPSS format that is the one available in
the PEW website.

**Details on each Data Source for the international cross-country
analysis**

EVS (2020). European Values Study Longitudinal Data File 1981-2008 (EVS
1981-2008). GESIS Data Archive, Cologne. ZA4804 Data file Version 3.1.0,
[[https://doi.org/10.4232/1.13486]{.underline}](https://doi.org/10.4232/1.13486).
(accessed July 16, 2021).

Datafile: \"ZA4804\_v3-1-0.dta\" (not provided)

\"ZA4804\_v3-1-0\_extract.dta\" (the extracted datafile is provided)

Folder: \"/Data/Source/ICC\"

Data is subject to a redistribution restriction but can be freely
downloaded from the EVS website. Specifically, the full dataset can be
accessed starting from the Data Download section of the webpage

[[https://europeanvaluesstudy.eu/]{.underline}](https://europeanvaluesstudy.eu/)

that allows to go at the webpage with title "ZA4804: European Values
Study Longitudinal Data File 1981-2008 (EVS 1981-2008)" at the URL

[[https://dbk.gesis.org/dbksearch/sdesc2.asp?db=e&no=4804]{.underline}](https://dbk.gesis.org/dbksearch/sdesc2.asp?db=e&no=4804).

Then, click on the link "ZA4804 Downloads and Data Access" to go in the
download page of the required file.

The URL for direct download (at the date of the last access) is:

[[https://search.gesis.org/research\_data/ZA4804]{.underline}](https://search.gesis.org/research_data/ZA4804)

The data download requires to fill out the registration form and agree
to the conditions of use. Save the file \"ZA4804\_v3-1-0.dta\" in the
directory \"/Data/Source/ICC\". Then, follow the instructions contained
at the beginning of the file \"/Programs/2\_evs.do\" to generate the
extracted datafile \"ZA4804\_v3-1-0\_extract.dta\" with only the data
necessary for the analysis; the extracted file has to be saved in the
folder \"/Data/Source/ICC\".

The datafile \"ZA4804\_v3-1-0\_extract.dta\" is provided as part of this
archive in the directory \"/Data/Source/ICC\". Therefore, the
replication of the analysis does not require any download of the data
from the EVS website.

Inglehart, R., C. Haerpfer, A. Moreno, C. Welzel, K. Kizilova, J.
Diez-Medrano, M. Lagos, P. Norris, E. Ponarin & B. Puranen et al.
(eds.). 2014. World Values Survey: All Rounds - Country-Pooled Datafile
Version:
[[http://www.worldvaluessurvey.org/WVSDocumentationWVL.jsp]{.underline}](http://www.worldvaluessurvey.org/WVSDocumentationWVL.jsp).
Madrid: JD Systems Institute. (accessed January 27, 2020).

Datafile: \"WVS\_Longitudinal\_1981\_2016\_stata\_v20180912.dta\" (not
provided)

\"WVS\_Longitudinal\_1981\_2016\_stata\_v20180912\_extract.dta\" (the
extracted datafile is provided)

Folder: \"/Data/Source/ICC\"

Data is subject to a redistribution restriction but can be freely
downloaded from
[[http://www.worldvaluessurvey.org/WVSDocumentationWVL.jsp]{.underline}](http://www.worldvaluessurvey.org/WVSDocumentationWVL.jsp).

Choose \"WVS\_Longitudinal\_1981\_2016\_stata\_v20180912.dta\", fill out
the registration form, including a brief description of the project, and
agree to the conditions of use. Save the file in the directory
\"/Data/Source/ICC\". Then, follow the instructions contained at the
beginning of the file \"/Programs/1\_wvs.do\" to generate the extracted
datafile
\"WVS\_Longitudinal\_1981\_2016\_stata\_v20180912\_extract.dta\" with
only the data necessary for the analysis; the extracted file has to be
saved in the folder \"/Data/Source/ICC\".

The datafile
\"WVS\_Longitudinal\_1981\_2016\_stata\_v20180912\_extract.dta\" is
provided as part of this archive in the directory \"/Data/Source/ICC\".
Therefore, the replication of the analysis does not require any download
of the data from the WVS website.

Barro, Robert and Jong-Wha Lee (2013) "A New Data Set of Educational
Attainment in the World, 1950-2010." Journal of Development Economics,
104, 184--198. (accessed December 28, 2015).

Datafile: \"BL2013\_MF1599\_v2.0.dta\"

Folder: \"/Data/Source/ICC\"

The data are in the public domain and available at:

[[http://www.barrolee.com/]{.underline}](http://www.barrolee.com/)

The file \"BL2013\_MF1599\_v2.0.dta\" is provided as part of this
archive in the folder \"/Data/Source/ICC\".

Norris, Pippa (2009). "Democracy Cross-national Data. Release 3.0 Spring
2009." (accessed March 8, 2013).

Datafile: \"Democracy Crossnational Data Spring 2009 StataSE.dta\"

Folder: \"/Data/Source/ICC\"

Data publicly available at the author's webpage:

[[http://www.pippanorris.com/]{.underline}](http://www.pippanorris.com/)

Data can be freely downloaded from the Pippa Norris's webpage but is
subject to a redistribution restriction. However, the datafile
\"Democracy Crossnational Data Spring 2009 StataSE.dta\" is provided as
part of this archive in the folder \"/Data/Source/ICC\" as the authors
have been authorized by Pippa Norris to redistribute it within the
replication package.

Park, Walter G. (2008) "International patent protection: 1960--2005."
Research Policy, 37(4), 761--766.
[[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2008.01.006]{.underline}](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2008.01.006).
(accessed January 28, 2020).

Datafile: \"Patent index1960 - 2015.xlsx\"

Folder: \"/Data/Source/ICC\"

Data publicly available at the author's webpage:

[[http://fs2.american.edu/wgp/www/?\_ga=2.150063158.1045324815.1586191710-954683830.1586191710]{.underline}](http://fs2.american.edu/wgp/www/?_ga=2.150063158.1045324815.1586191710-954683830.1586191710)

Data can be freely downloaded from the Walter Park's webpage but is
subject to a redistribution restriction. However, the datafile \"Patent
index1960 - 2015.xlsx\" is provided as part of this archive in the
folder \"/Data/Source/ICC\" as the authors have been authorized by
Walter Park to redistribute it within the replication package.

World Development Indicators. Washington, D.C., The World Bank.
(accessed January 27, 2020).

Datafile: \"WDIData.csv\"

Folder: \"/Data/Source/ICC\"

The data are in the public domain and available at:

[[http://data.worldbank.org/data-catalog/world-development-indicators]{.underline}](http://data.worldbank.org/data-catalog/world-development-indicators)

Data can be downloaded from the webpage with the URL above reported.
Choose all variables and countries for the period 1960 to 2019 and
download the csv file. The file \"WDIData.csv\" has to be saved in the
folder \"/Data/Source/ICC\". A copy of the data is provided as part of
this archive.

World Intellectual Policy Organization (WIPO) statistics database.
"Intellectual property right: Patent". Last updated: October 2019.
(accessed January 27, 2020).

Datafile: \"patent\_1980\_2018.csv\"

Folder: \"/Data/Source/ICC\"

The data are in the public domain and available at:

[[https://www3.wipo.int/ipstats/index.htm?tab=patent]{.underline}](https://www3.wipo.int/ipstats/index.htm?tab=patent)

Data can be freely downloaded from the webpage with the URL reported
above. Choose "Patent" and the following entries: "Indicator: 1 - Total
patent applications (direct and PCT national phase entries)", "Report
type: Total count by filing office", "Year range: 1980 -- 2018",
"Office: all countries", "Type: Non-resident, Resident". Then, download
the csv file \"patent\_1980\_2018.csv\" and save it in the folder
\"/Data/Source/ICC\". A copy of the data is provided as part of this
archive.

Wikipedia (2020) "Communist state", April 1, 2020.
[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communist\_state]{.underline}](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communist_state).
(accessed April 7, 2020).

Datafile: \"14\_communism\_labels.do\"

Folder: \"/Programs\"

The data are in the public domain and available at:

[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communist\_state]{.underline}](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communist_state)

Data for the variable \"communist\" is imported in the final dataset
using the do program file \"14\_communism\_labels.do\" contained in the
folder \"/Programs\". Further details about the extraction of
information from the above cited Wikipedia's webpage is reported in
Online Appendix G.

**Details on each Data Source for the US cross-state analysis**

Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life (2007). "U.S. Religion Landscape
Survey". (accessed November 3, 2013).

Datafiles: \"Religious Landscape Survey Data - Continental US.dta\"

\"Religious Landscape Survey Data - Alaska and Hawaii.dta\"

Folder: \"/Data/Source/USA\"

Data is subject to a redistribution restriction but can be freely
downloaded from the Pew Research Center website at:

[[https://www.pewforum.org/dataset/u-s-religious-landscape-survey/]{.underline}](https://www.pewforum.org/dataset/u-s-religious-landscape-survey/)

Specifically, the data download requires to fill out the registration
form and agree to the conditions of use. The file downloaded is named:

\"dataset\_Religious\_Landscape\_Survey\_Data.zip\"

and it contains (together with the documentation files in Word format)
the following two datafiles in SPSS format:

\"Religious Landscape Survey Data - Continental US.sav\" and

\"Religious Landscape Survey Data - Alaska and Hawaii.sav\".

These two files need to be transformed in Stata format and saved in the
directory \"/Data/Source/ICC\".

While the data is subject to a redistribution restriction, the two files
(transformed by the authors) in Stata format

\"Religious Landscape Survey Data - Continental US.dta\"

\"Religious Landscape Survey Data - Alaska and Hawaii.dta\"

are provided as part of this archive in the directory
\"/Data/Source/ICC\" as the authors have been authorized by the Pew
Research Center to redistribute the data within the replication package.

U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, "Gross Domestic Product by State".
Last updated: November 7, 2019.
[[https://www.bea.gov/data/gdp/gdp-state]{.underline}](https://www.bea.gov/data/gdp/gdp-state).
(accessed February 13, 2020).

Datafiles: \"Per capita real GDP by state 2006 2007.xls\"

\"Gross domestic product (GDP) 2006 2007.xls\"

Folder: \"/Data/Source/USA\"

The data are in the public domain and available at:

[[https://www.bea.gov/data/gdp/gdp-state]{.underline}](https://www.bea.gov/data/gdp/gdp-state)

Data can be freely downloaded from the webpage with the URL reported
above. Choose to download "Per capita real GDP by State (Chained 2012
dollars) (SAGDP10N)" and "Gross domestic product (GDP) by State
(SAGDP2N) (All industry total)" for the years 2006 and 2007. Save the
files respectively with names \"Per capita real GDP by state 2006
2007.xls\" and \"Gross domestic product (GDP) 2006 2007.xls\" in the
folder \"/Data/Source/USA\". A copy of the data is provided as part of
this archive.

U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, "Foreign Direct Investment in the
United States (FDIUS): 2006 Data Tables".
[[https://www.bea.gov/international/foreign-direct-investment-united-states-fdius-2006-data-tables]{.underline}](https://www.bea.gov/international/foreign-direct-investment-united-states-fdius-2006-data-tables).
(accessed February 13, 2020).

Datafile: \"Tab III.D11.xls\"

Folder: \"/Data/Source/USA\"

The data are in the public domain and available at:

[[https://www.bea.gov/international/foreign-direct-investment-united-states-fdius-2006-data-tables]{.underline}](https://www.bea.gov/international/foreign-direct-investment-united-states-fdius-2006-data-tables)

Data can be freely downloaded from the webpage with the URL reported
above. Choose to download "complete set of the Revised 2006 Data Tables
(ZIP)" in Section "Revised 2006 Data Tables". Then, unzip the folder and
save the file \"Tab III.D11.xls\" containing "Table III.D11. Gross
Property, Plant, and Equipment of Affiliates, State by Use" in the
folder \"/Data/Source/USA\". A copy of the data is provided as part of
this archive.

U.S. Census Bureau, "Table 1. Intercensal Estimates of the Resident
Population for the United States, Regions, States, and Puerto Rico:
April 1, 2000 to July 1, 2010 (ST-EST00INT-01)". Last Revised: November
30, 2016.
[[https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/popest/intercensal-2000-2010-state.html]{.underline}](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/popest/intercensal-2000-2010-state.html).
(accessed February 13, 2020).

Datafile: \"st-est00int-01.xls\"

Folder: \"/Data/Source/USA\"

The data are in the public domain and available at:

[[https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/popest/intercensal-2000-2010-state.html]{.underline}](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/popest/intercensal-2000-2010-state.html)

Data can be freely downloaded from the webpage with the URL reported
above "State Intercensal Tables: 2000-2010". Choose to download
"Intercensal Estimates of the Resident Population for the United States,
Regions, States, and Puerto Rico: April 1, 2000 to July 1, 2010" and
save the file \"st-est00int-01.xls\" in the folder \"/Data/Source/USA\".
A copy of the data is provided as part of this archive.

U.S. Census Bureau (2009), "Educational Attainment in the United States:
2007". Issued January 2009, P20-560. (accessed February 12, 2020).

Datafiles: \"p20-560.pdf\"

\"ba\_US.xls\"

Folder: \"/Data/Source/USA\"

The publication is in the public domain and available at:

[[https://www.census.gov/library/publications/2009/demo/p20-560.html]{.underline}](https://www.census.gov/library/publications/2009/demo/p20-560.html)

Download the PDF file \"p20-560.pdf\" from the link "Download
Educational Attainment in the United States: 2007 \[PDF - \<1.0 MB\]" in
the webpage with the URL reported above. The data of the share (in
percentage term) of the State population with bachelor's degree or more
used for the analysis are contained in "Table 2. Educational Attainment
for the Population Aged 25 and Over by Region, State, and Nativity
Status: 2007" at page 8 of the file \"p20-560.pdf\". These data have
been reported by the authors in the Excel file \"ba\_US.xls\" that is
saved in the folder \"/Data/Source/USA\". A copy of the data is provided
as part of this archive.

U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Electronic Information Products
Division, Patent Technology Monitoring Team (PTMT) (2007). "Calendar
Year 2007 Patent Counts by Patent Type and by State and Country of
Origin (01-Jan-2007 to 31-Dec-2007)".
[[http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/ac/ido/oeip/taf/st\_co\_07.htm]{.underline}](http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/ac/ido/oeip/taf/st_co_07.htm).
(accessed November 4, 2013).

Datafile: \"patents\_US.csv\"

Folder: \"/Data/Source/USA\"

The data are in the public domain and available at:

[[http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/ac/ido/oeip/taf/st\_co\_07.htm]{.underline}](http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/ac/ido/oeip/taf/st_co_07.htm)

The data of the total number of patents submitted by residents of the
State in 2007 are contained in the report available in the webpage with
the URL reported above. The data have been reported by the authors in
the csv format file \"patents\_US.csv\" that is saved in the folder
\"/Data/Source/USA\". A copy of the data is provided as part of this
archive.

**[Dataset list: folder \"Data\"]{.underline}**

We here report a brief description about the folder \"Data\" that
contains three subfolders: \"Final\", \"Source\", \"Temp\". All source
datafiles are contained in the subfolder \"Source\" that, in turn,
includes two subfolders: \"ICC\" and \"USA\". The subfolder \"Final\" is
empty and will contain the following two final datasets (generated by
combining the source files) used for the analysis. The subfolder
\"Temp\" is empty and will include all the datasets generated by and
recalled by the do files to construct the two final datasets.

**Description of the datasets in the subfolder \"Source/ICC\"**

The subfolder \"ICC\" contains the source datasets used to generate the
final dataset for the international cross-country analysis.

\"codes.dta\": The dataset comes from our elaboration. It contains a
list with the name of each country, variable named \"country\_wv\", that
is taken from the World Values Survey (WVS) and the European Values
Study (EVS) datasets, and a three-letter code, variable named \"code2\",
that corresponds to \"Country Code\" of the World Development Indicators
(WDI) dataset. The variable \"code2\" uniquely identifies each country
and is used to combine the various datasets in a unique manner as
country names may contain minor differences in the various datasets to
combine.

\"WVS\_Longitudinal\_1981\_2016\_stata\_v20180912\_extract.dta\":
Extracted datafile with just the variables used of the World Values
Survey longitudinal dataset containing the 6 waves for the period
1980--2010 and that is used to obtain the five religiosity variables,
the shares of main religions and the dummy variables for the predominant
religion of each country.

\"ZA4804\_v3-1-0\_extract.dta\": Extracted datafile with just the
variables used of the European Values Study longitudinal dataset
containing the 4 waves for the period 1981-2008 and that is used to
obtain the five religiosity variables, the shares of main religions and
the dummy variables for the predominant religion of each country.

\"patent\_1980\_2018.csv\": Dataset that contains data on patents taken
from the World Intellectual Policy Organization (WIPO).

\"match\_wipo.dta\": Stata dataset that comes from our elaboration and
that contains the country names and \"code2\". It is used to merge the
WIPO data on patents with the other datasets.

\"WDIData.csv\": Dataset from the World Development Indicators (WDI)
containing the data on Population, Gross Domestic Product per capita,
and Foreign direct investment.

\"BL2013\_MF1599\_v2.0.dta\": Dataset from Barro and Lee (2013) that is
used to obtain the average years of tertiary education.

\"Patent index1960 - 2015.xlsx\": Dataset by Park containing the index
on patent protection.

\"match\_park.dta\": Stata dataset that comes from our elaboration and
that contains the country names and \"code2\", and that is used to merge
the Park's dataset containing the index on patent protection with the
other datasets.

\"Democracy Crossnational Data Spring 2009 StataSE.dta\": Democracy
Cross-national Data, Release 3.0 Spring 2009, (Norris, 2009), that is
used to obtain the variable Religious freedom.

**Description of the datasets in the subfolder \"Source/USA\"**

The subfolder \"USA\" contains the source datasets used to generate the
final dataset for the U.S. cross-state analysis.

\"Religious Landscape Survey Data - Continental US.dta\" and \"Religious
Landscape Survey Data - Alaska and Hawaii.dta\": These two datasets are
taken from the Pew Research Center's Religion & Public Life Project,
Religion Landscape Survey, 2007, and are used to obtain the three
religiosity variables for each U.S. State. Specifically, the datasets
available from the PEW website are in SPSS format and these two datasets
have been transformed in Stata format by the authors.

\"patents\_US.csv\": Dataset taken from the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office containing the data on the total number of patents submitted by
residents of the State in 2007.

\"Gross domestic product (GDP) 2006 2007.xls\": Dataset containing the
Gross domestic product (GDP) by State (SAGDP2N) in 2006 that is used to
compute the Foreign direct investment as a share of GSP in 2006.

\"st-est00int-01.xls\": Dataset taken from the United States Census
Bureau that is used to obtain the Population of each State.

\"p20-560.pdf\": File on the Educational Attainment for the Population
Aged 25 and Over by Region, State, and Nativity Status: 2007. Source:
United States Census Bureau, Educational Attainment in the United
States: 2007; Issued January 2009, P20-560. We take the data on the
share (in percentage term) of the State population with bachelor's
degree or more from Table 2, at page 8, as explained below.

\"ba\_US.xls\": Dataset containing the share (in percentage term) of the
State population with bachelor's degree or more. The dataset comes from
our elaboration and the data are taken from Table 2, at page 8, of the
report cited above (the Educational Attainment for the Population Aged
25 and Over by Region, State, and Nativity Status: 2007) and contained
in the file \"p20-560.pdf\".

\"Tab III.D11.xls\": Dataset taken from the Bureau of Economic Analysis,
State or DC, from which we take the Foreign Direct Investment in the
United States (FDIUS) in 2006 (Table III.D11. Gross Property, Plant, and
Equipment of Affiliates, State by Use, in millions of dollars).

\"Per capita real GDP by state 2006 2007.xls\": Dataset taken from the
Bureau of Economic Analysis, State or DC, from which we take the
(SAGDP10N) Per capita real GDP by State (Chained 2012 dollars) in 2007.

**Description of the datasets in the subfolder \"Data/Final\"**

The subfolder \"Final\" will contain the following two final datasets
(generated by combining the source files) used for the analysis.

\"icc\_final\_dataset.dta\": Final dataset used for the international
cross-country analysis.

\"usa\_final\_dataset.dta\": Final dataset used for the U.S. cross-state
analysis.

**Description of the datasets in the subfolder \"Data/Temp\"**

The subfolder \"Temp\" is empty and will include all the datasets
generated by and recalled by the do files to construct the two final
datasets used to replicate the analysis. The datasets contained in this
folder are of no use and can be deleted after the final datasets have
been generated.

**[Description of programs/code files: folder
\"Programs\"]{.underline}**

We here report a brief description of the do files contained in the
folder \"Programs\". The do files also contain some comments inside that
help explaining the various steps.

The file \"master.do\" is the master file. It calls the other do files
(whose brief description of is reported below) to generate the datasets
and replicate the results of the analysis.

STEP 1: BUILDING THE DATASET FOR THE INTERNATIONAL CROSS-COUNTRY
ANALYSIS

Do files numbered from 1 to 14 are used to generate the final dataset
\"icc\_final\_dataset.dta\" for the international cross-country
analysis.

1\_wvs.do: the code generates the five variables of religiosity
(Religious person, Belief in God, Church attendance, Importance of
religion, God very important), the four variables for the shares of
religions (Protestant, Catholic, Muslim, Orthodox) and the correspondent
predominant religions for all countries using the datafile named
\"WVS\_Longitudinal\_1981\_2016\_stata\_v20180912\_extract.dta\" that
has been extracted from the World Values Survey (WVS) dataset
\"WVS\_Longitudinal\_1981\_2016\_stata\_v20180912.dta\". At the
beginning of the file there are reported the instructions on how the
extracted datafile has been (and can be) obtained. The data are stored
in the temporary dataset \"wvs\_dbc.dta\".

2\_evs.do: the code generates the five variables of religiosity
(Religious person, Belief in God, Church attendance, Importance of
religion, God very important), the four variables for the shares of
religions (Protestant, Catholic, Muslim, Orthodox) and the correspondent
predominant religions for all countries using the datafile named
\"ZA4804\_v3-1-0\_extract.dta\" that has been extracted from the
European Values Study (EVS) dataset \"ZA4804\_v3-1-0.dta\". At the
beginning of the file there are reported the instructions on how the
extracted datafile has been (and can be) obtained. The data are stored
in the temporary dataset \"evs\_dbc.dta\".

3\_wvs\_evs.do: the code merges the dataset \"wvs\_dbc.dta\" obtained
from the WVS dataset at point 1 (i.e. from \"1\_wvs.do\") with the
dataset \"evs\_dbc.dta\" obtained from the EVS dataset at point 2 (i.e.
from \"2\_evs.do\"). The merged dataset is named \"wvs\_evs.dta\".

4\_wipo.do: the code prepares the WIPO dataset on patents
\"patent\_1980\_2018.csv\" for the merger with our dataset. The
resulting data is stored in the file \"wipo.dta\".

5\_merge\_wipo.do: the code updates the dataset \"wvs\_evs.dta\"
(obtained at step 3) with the patents data contained in \"wipo.dta\"
(obtained at step 4). The resulting dataset is named
\"w\_evs\_wipo.dta\".

6\_wdi.do: the code prepares the dataset \"WDIData.csv\" from the WDI
containing the data on Population, Gross Domestic Product per capita,
and Foreign direct investment, for merging with our dataset. The code
stores the data in the file \"WB\_dataset.dta\".

7\_merge\_wdi.do: the code updates the dataset \"w\_evs\_wipo.dta\"
(obtained at step 5) with the WDI data in the file \"WB\_dataset.dta\"
(obtained at step 6) and stores the data in the file
\"w\_evs\_wipo\_wdi.dta\".

8\_barrolee.do: the code prepares the dataset
\"BL2013\_MF1599\_v2.0.dta\" from Barro and Lee that contains the data
on tertiary education (years) for merging with our dataset. The code
stores the data in the file \"bl.dta\".

9\_merge\_barrolee.do: the code updates the dataset
\"w\_evs\_wipo\_wdi.dta\" (obtained at step 7) with the Barro and Lee
data on tertiary education contained in the file \"bl.dta\" (obtained at
step 8) and stores the data in the file \"w\_evs\_wipo\_wdi\_bl.dta\".

10\_park.do: the code prepares the dataset \"Patent index1960 -
2015.xlsx\" from Park containing the index of patent protection for
merging with our dataset. The code stores the data in the file
\"Panel\_Park.dta\".

11\_merge\_park.do: the code updates the dataset
\"w\_evs\_wipo\_wdi\_bl.dta\" (obtained at step 9) with the Park's index
of patent protection contained in the file \"Panel\_Park.dta\" (obtained
at step 10) and stores the data in the file
\"w\_evs\_wipo\_wdi\_bl\_ipr.dta\".

12\_norris.do: the code prepares the dataset \"Democracy Crossnational
Data Spring 2009 StataSE.dta\" from the
DemocracyÂ Cross-nationalÂ CodebookÂ (Norris, 2009) containing the data on
Religious Freedom index for merge and saves the data in the file
\"norris.dta\".

13\_merge\_norris.do: the code updates the dataset
\"w\_evs\_wipo\_wdi\_bl\_ipr.dta\" (obtained at step 11) with the
Religious freedom index in the file \"norris.dta\" (obtained at step 12)
and stores the data in the file
\"w\_evs\_wipo\_wdi\_bl\_ipr\_norris.dta\".

14\_communism\_labels.do: the code updates the dataset
\"w\_evs\_wipo\_wdi\_bl\_ipr\_norris.dta\" (obtained at step 12) with
the dummy variable \"communist\" denoting whether the country is or was
a communist state, add labels and macros, and stores the data in the
file \"icc\_final\_dataset.dta\" that is our final dataset for the
international cross-country analysis.

STEP 2: TABLES AND FIGURES FOR THE INTERNATIONAL CROSS-COUNTRY ANALYSIS

As reported in the master file, the following do files contain the code
to generate the tables and figures (whose names are reported beside the
name of the do file) for the international cross-country analysis
starting from our final dataset \"icc\_final\_dataset.dta\".

15\_table\_2.do Table 2

16\_table\_F1.do Table F.1

17\_table\_F2.do Table F.2

18\_table\_F3.do Table F.3

19\_table\_F4.do Table F.4

20\_figures\_1a\_1b.do Figures 1a and 1b

21\_figures\_F1a\_F1b.do Figures F.1a and F.1b

22\_figures\_F2a\_F2b.do Figures F.2a and F.2b

23\_figures\_F3a\_F3b.do Figures F.3a and F.3b

24\_figures\_F4a\_F4b.do Figures F.4a and F.4b

25\_figures\_F5a\_F5b.do Figures F.5a and F.5b

STEP 3: BUILDING THE DATASET FOR THE U.S. CROSS-STATE ANALYSIS

Do files numbered from 26 to 33 are used to generate the final dataset
\"usa\_final\_dataset.dta\" for the U.S. cross-state analysis.

26\_pew.do: the code merges the datasets \"Religious Landscape Survey
Data - Continental US.dta\" and \"Religious Landscape Survey Data -
Alaska and Hawaii.dta\" from the Pew Research and generates the three
variables of religiosity (Importance of religion, Belief in God, Church
attendance) for the U.S. states. The data are then stored in the dataset
\"pew\_usa.dta\".

27\_patents.do: the code prepares the dataset \"patents\_US.csv\"
containing the data on the total number of patents submitted by
residents of the State in 2007 (from the U.S. PATENT AND TRADEMARK
OFFICE) for merging with other datasets and stores the data in the file
\"patents\_US.dta\".

28\_gsp.do: the code prepares the dataset \"Gross domestic product (GDP)
2006 2007.xls\" containing the data on the Gross domestic product (GDP)
by State in 2006 for merging with other datasets and stores the data in
the file \"gsp\_US.dta\". This data will then be used to compute the
Foreign direct investment as a share of GSP (in 2006).

29\_pop.do: the code prepares the dataset \"st-est00int-01.xls\"
containing the data on Population by State in 2007 for merging with
other datasets and stores the data in the file \"pop\_US.dta\".

30\_edu.do: the code prepares the dataset \"ba\_US.xls\" containing the
data on Tertiary education in 2007 for merging with other datasets and
stores the data in the file \"ba\_US.dta\".

31\_fdi.do: the code prepares the dataset \"Tab III.D11.xls\" containing
the data of the Foreign Direct Investment by State in 2006 for merging
with other datasets and stores the data in the file \"fdi\_US.dta\".

32\_gsp\_c.do: the code prepares the dataset \"Per capita real GDP by
state 2006 2007.xls\" containing the data on the Per capita real GDP by
State in 2007 for merging with other datasets and stores the data in the
file \"gsp\_c\_US.dta\".

33\_merge.do: the code merges all the datasets generated before (in the
steps 26-32), generates the variables required, adds the labels to the
variables used, and stores the data in the file
\"usa\_final\_dataset.dta\", that is our final dataset used for the U.S.
cross-state analysis.

STEP 4: TABLES AND FIGURES FOR THE U.S. CROSS-STATE ANALYSIS

As reported in the master file, the following do files contain the code
to generate the tables and figures (whose name is reported beside) for
the U.S. cross-state analysis.

34\_table\_3.do Table 3

35\_figures\_2a\_2b.do Figures 2a and 2b

36\_figures\_F6a\_F6b.do Figures F.6a and F.6b

37\_figures\_F7a\_F7b.do Figures F.7a and F.7b

**[Description of output files: folder \"Results\"]{.underline}**

The folder \"Results\" will contain the tables and figures with all
results of the analysis after the execution of the file \"master.do\".
The name of the files in the folder after running the program are
self-explaining about their content and are the following:

Figure\_1a.pdf

Figure\_1b.pdf

Figure\_2a.pdf

Figure\_2b.pdf

Figure\_F.1a.pdf

Figure\_F.1b.pdf

Figure\_F.2a.pdf

Figure\_F.2b.pdf

Figure\_F.3a.pdf

Figure\_F.3b.pdf

Figure\_F.4a.pdf

Figure\_F.4b.pdf

Figure\_F.5a.pdf

Figure\_F.5b.pdf

Figure\_F.6a.pdf

Figure\_F.6b.pdf

Figure\_F.7a.pdf

Figure\_F.7b.pdf

Table\_2.rtf

Table\_3.rtf

Table\_F.1.rtf

Table\_F.2.rtf

Table\_F.3.rtf

Table\_F.4.rtf

**[References]{.underline}**

Barro, Robert and Jong-Wha Lee (2013) "A New Data Set of Educational
Attainment in the World, 1950-2010." Journal of Development Economics,
104, 184--198.
[[http://www.barrolee.com/]{.underline}](http://www.barrolee.com/).
(accessed December 28, 2015).

EVS (2020). European Values Study Longitudinal Data File 1981-2008 (EVS
1981-2008). GESIS Data Archive, Cologne. ZA4804 Data file Version 3.1.0,
[[https://doi.org/10.4232/1.13486]{.underline}](https://doi.org/10.4232/1.13486).
(accessed July 16, 2021).

Inglehart, R., C. Haerpfer, A. Moreno, C. Welzel, K. Kizilova, J.
Diez-Medrano, M. Lagos, P. Norris, E. Ponarin & B. Puranen et al.
(eds.). 2014. World Values Survey: All Rounds - Country-Pooled Datafile
Version:
[[http://www.worldvaluessurvey.org/WVSDocumentationWVL.jsp]{.underline}](http://www.worldvaluessurvey.org/WVSDocumentationWVL.jsp).
Madrid: JD Systems Institute. (accessed January 27, 2020).

Norris, Pippa (2009). "Democracy Cross-national Data. Release 3.0 Spring
2009."
[[http://www.pippanorris.com/]{.underline}](http://www.pippanorris.com/).
(accessed March 8, 2013).

Park, Walter G. (2008) "International patent protection: 1960--2005."
Research Policy, 37(4), 761--766.
[[https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2008.01.006]{.underline}](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.respol.2008.01.006).
(accessed January 28, 2020).

Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life (2007). "U.S. Religion Landscape
Survey".
[[https://www.pewforum.org/dataset/u-s-religious-landscape-survey/]{.underline}](https://www.pewforum.org/dataset/u-s-religious-landscape-survey/).
(accessed November 3, 2013).

U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, "Foreign Direct Investment in the
United States (FDIUS): 2006 Data Tables".
[[https://www.bea.gov/international/foreign-direct-investment-united-states-fdius-2006-data-tables]{.underline}](https://www.bea.gov/international/foreign-direct-investment-united-states-fdius-2006-data-tables).
(accessed February 13, 2020).

U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, "Gross Domestic Product by State".
Last updated: November 7, 2019.
[[https://www.bea.gov/data/gdp/gdp-state]{.underline}](https://www.bea.gov/data/gdp/gdp-state).
(accessed February 13, 2020).

U.S. Census Bureau (2009), "Educational Attainment in the United States:
2007". Issued January 2009, P20-560.
[[https://www.census.gov/library/publications/2009/demo/p20-560.html]{.underline}](https://www.census.gov/library/publications/2009/demo/p20-560.html).
(accessed February 12, 2020).

U.S. Census Bureau, "Table 1. Intercensal Estimates of the Resident
Population for the United States, Regions, States, and Puerto Rico:
April 1, 2000 to July 1, 2010 (ST-EST00INT-01)". Last Revised: November
30, 2016.
[[https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/popest/intercensal-2000-2010-state.html]{.underline}](https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-series/demo/popest/intercensal-2000-2010-state.html).
(accessed February 13, 2020).

U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Electronic Information Products
Division, Patent Technology Monitoring Team (PTMT) (2007). "Calendar
Year 2007 Patent Counts by Patent Type and by State and Country of
Origin (01-Jan-2007 to 31-Dec-2007)".
[[http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/ac/ido/oeip/taf/st\_co\_07.htm]{.underline}](http://www.uspto.gov/web/offices/ac/ido/oeip/taf/st_co_07.htm).
(accessed November 4, 2013).

Wikipedia (2020) "Communist state", April 1, 2020.
[[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communist\_state]{.underline}](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Communist_state).
(accessed April 7, 2020).

World Development Indicators. Washington, D.C., The World Bank.
[[http://data.worldbank.org/data-catalog/world-development-indicators]{.underline}](http://data.worldbank.org/data-catalog/world-development-indicators).
(accessed January 27, 2020).

World Intellectual Policy Organization (WIPO) statistics database.
"Intellectual property right: Patent".
[[https://www3.wipo.int/ipstats/index.htm?tab=patent]{.underline}](https://www3.wipo.int/ipstats/index.htm?tab=patent).
Last updated: October 2019. (accessed January 27, 2020).

**[Acknowledgements]{.underline}**

We wish to thank the Data editor MiklÃ³s Koren for comments and
suggestions in the process of preparation of the replication package. We
also thank Pippa Norris, Walter Park, and the Pew Research Center for
allowing us to provide their datasets, and the European Values Study and
the World Values Survey for allowing us to provide an extract of their
datasets.
