{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;\f4\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red5\green99\blue193;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c1961\c38824\c75686;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
{\info
{\author Andreas Fuster}}\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12840\viewh15480\viewkind1\viewscale120
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 README for replication package of empirical parts of Fuster, Kaplan, and Zafar, \'93What Would You Do with $500? Spending Responses to Gains, Losses, News and Loans\'94
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 The folder for the replication should contain the subfolders \'91data\'92, \'91do_files\'92, and \'91output\'92 (this one should be empty at the beginning of the replication; it currently contains the output generated by running the do-files). \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf0 RUNALL.do (in \'91do_files\'92) generates all the figures and tables in the paper and appendix that are based on the empirical analysis of the survey data, as well as the numbers discussed in the text. The file sequentially runs various do-files, whose names indicate what results they produce; they can also be run manually one by one. (Table 6.do produces the numbers in the \'93Data\'94 columns of Table 6; the \'93Model\'94 columns are produced by the code in the \'93model\'94 subfolder of the replication package.) \
\
Before running the file, the folder path (\'93global main\'94) needs to be changed in RUNALL.do
\f2 .
\f3  Also, a few Stata packages may need to be installed, as indicated in RUNALL.do: \'93unique\'94, \'93dm88_1\'94, \'93ftools\'94, \'93reghdfe\'94. 
\f2 \
\

\f3 Notes on files in the \'91data\'92 subfolder:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \'95	FKZdata.dta is the main file used in the analysis; it contains the responses from the relevant survey modules, as well as additional respondent characteristics.  The survey questions generating these data are in the surveydocuments subfolder.
\f2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f3 \cf0 \'95	rscfp2013.dta and usa_00002.dta are the raw SCF and American Community Survey files used in Table 1.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\f3 \cf0 \'95	participation_retention.dta is used for the analysis in Appendix Table A1. This file is based on the full monthly SCE panel, augmented with information on when people enter/exit the panel.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\f3 \cf0 \'95	inc_monthly.dta is used in Table A4 and based on the income information in the monthly SCE panel.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri0\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\f3 \cf0 \'95	SCE_Sept2019.dta is used in Appendix B5. The survey questions generating these data are in the surveydocuments subfolder (September_2019_SCE_qhyp.docx)\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Additional information on the datasets:\
\
The main data used in the paper come from modules that the researchers added to various monthly surveys of the Survey of Consumer Expectations (SCE). The microdata for the core monthly modules for the SCE are released publicly with a lag, and are available under the \'91download\'92 tab at https://www.newyorkfed.org/microeconomics/sce. The same tab also has links to the survey documentation. Note, however, that the microdata for the questions that were especially added to the core survey and are used in the paper are not publicly available. We are making them available as part of the replication package (FKZdata.dta, see above).\
\
\
For additional details on the SCE, see Armantier et al. (2017). \
\
The second dataset, used in Table 1, is the 2015 American Community Survey (ACS). The ACS raw data can be downloaded from IPUMS: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://usa.ipums.org/usa/}}. A researcher can pick the variables/samples they want. (The dataset as we use it, which is included in the replication package, was obtained through Census Bureau\'92s American Fact Finder. However, that site has been retired now.) The data citation is Ruggles et al. (2020). \
\
The third dataset used in the paper (Table 1 and Section 5.3) is the Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF) from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2020), and also made available as part of this replication package (for the replication of Table 1). The public-use microdata (and documentation) for the SCE can be downloaded freely from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/scfindex.htm}}. \
\
\
\
References\
\
Armantier, Olivier, Giorgio Topa, Wilbert van der Klaauw, and Basit Zafar. \'93An Overview of the Survey of Consumer Expectations." Federal Reserve Bank of New York Economic Policy Review, 2017, 23 (2), 51-72.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, \'93Survey of Consumer Finances,\'94 https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/scfindex.htm, Washington, DC 2020. 
\f4 \

\f3 Ruggles, Steven, Sarah Flood, Ronald Goeken, Josiah Grover, Erin Meyer, Jose Pacas, and Matthew Sobek, \'93IPUMS USA: Version 10.0 (dataset),\'94 https: //doi.org/10.18128/D010.V10.0, Minneapolis, MN: IPUMS 2020. \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}