
                                             18 November, 1997

Documentation for 1992 Benchmark Input-Output Accounts:
Six Digit Industry-by-Commodity Total Requirements
Six Digit Total Industry Output Multipliers

----------------------------------------------------------------
Please make a backup copy of this diskette immediately.
----------------------------------------------------------------

Source

     The data on this diskette were prepared by the Industry
Economics Division, Bureau of Economic Analysis BE-51, U.S.
Department of Commerce.  Contact Myles Levin (202-606-9464) or
FAX (202-606-5316) or E-Mail (ieddata@bea.doc.gov) if you have
questions concerning the contents of the diskette.


Ordering information

      Accession number    NDN-0183
      Price               $20  (1 diskette)
      Check payable to    Bureau of Economic Analysis
      Address             U.S. Department of Commerce
                          Public Information Office
                          Order Desk, BE-53
                          Bureau of Economic Analysis
                          Washington, DC  20230

Description of data

     This diskette contains data from the 1992 benchmark
input-output (I-O) accounts as published in "Input-Output
Accounts of the U.S. Economy,1992," SURVEY OF CURRENT BUSINESS
78(November 1997).  

     Methodology, coverage of data, and data definitions are
noted in the SURVEY article describing the benchmark I-O.

     The data files presented on this diskette consist of a 
row I-O code, a column I-O code, the table reference number,
and the cell value.  All values are right justified with 
decimals shown explicitly.  All cells in the tables are 
included.  No copyrighted data are found in these files.
      
     The data files have been compressed as a self-extracting
"zip" files.  Approximate disk space required for decompressed
tables is:

     IxCTR.txt   --- 6.6  megabytes
     TIndOut.txt --- 11   kilobytes
      


Procedure for using disk

     Copy all diskette files to a directory on your hard disk.
At the DOS prompt, type the name of a data table, for example
"IxCTR", this will decompress the file and create a tab 
delimited ASCII text file. (Windows 95 or NT users should click
on Start, then select Run, then type (or browse and select) 
the directory path you created for the diskette data, e.g.;
"C:\IOData\IxCTR.exe")

A program has been included to extract data from the text
files.  Please refer to IOXTRACT.txt for instructions.

Files included on these diskettes are:

     File      Diskette      Description

   README.txt    1         Description of the data diskette.
   SIC-IO.txt    1         I-O codes, descriptions and related
                           SIC's
   IxCTR.EXE     1         Compressed IxCTR.txt. Table 5, the
                           Commodity-by-Commodity Total
                           Requirements
   TIndOut.EXE   1         Compressed TComOut.txt. Table 9, the   
                           Total Industry Output Multipliers
                           (column sums from table 5)
   IxCTR.FMT     1         File layout table for IxCTR.txt
   TIndOut.FMT   1         File layout table for TIndOut.txt
   MATHIO.txt    1         Mathematical derivation of I-O
                           accounts
   IOXTRACT.exe  1         Program to extract data from the
                           text files
   IOXTRACT.txt  1         Documentation for IOXTRACT.exe
   IO-Code.txt   1         6 digit IO codes and descriptions
   IO-Code.fmt   1         File layout for IO-Code.txt

   All files have the read-only attribute set.
